== Setting Up The Screen

` [ lcd.Start ](lcd.Start_15400977.adoc) ` requires one value to be passed to
it: the address of a drawing surface it will copy from. This address is
returned when the ` [ gfx.Start ](gfx.Start_15400979.adoc) ` command is
called, so you can pass it as a the parameter.

    
    
    PUB Main
        lcd.Start(gfx.Start)

So now let's test that it works. You will find in ` games/Pong/ ` some ball
and paddle graphics that you can include in your application. Add these two
lines to your OBJ block from before. These will include the gfx_ball.spin and
gfx_paddle.spin objects in your code, with the names ball and paddle.

    
    
        ball    : "gfx_ball"

Once these are added successfully, you can test that everything is set up
correctly by placing these three lines into your Main function. We will
explain what they all mean later.

    
    
        gfx.Clear
        gfx.Sprite(ball.Addr, 10, 10, 0)
        lcd.Draw
    

Let's break these down. The ` [ gfx.Sprite ](gfx.Sprite_15958162.adoc) `
command takes 4 parameters. The first parameter is the address of the image
file in memory. ` gfx_ball.spin ` , when generated by ` img2dat ` , creates a
function called ` Addr ` , which can be called to get the location of the
graphics in memory.

    
    
    ' *********************************************************
    ' gfx_ball.spin
    ' Graphics generated by img2dat
    ' *********************************************************
    PUB Addr
        return @gfx_data
    DAT
    
    gfx_data
    word    16 ' frameboost
    word    8, 8 ' width, height
    ' frame 0
    word    $ad7a '   ▓░░▓  
    word    $9556 '  ░░░░░░ 
    word    $d557 ' ▓░░░░░░▓
    word    $5555 ' ░░░░░░░░
    word    $5555 ' ░░░░░░░░
    word    $d557 ' ▓░░░░░░▓
    word    $9556 '  ░░░░░░ 
    word    $ad7a '   ▓░░▓  
    
    

The next two parameters are horizontal and vertical position. (0,0) is defined
as the top-left of the screen, and it goes all the way to ` 128x64 ` . The
final parameter is the frame number, which is the number of frames of
animation this file has. If you look in the file, you can see that it's a
static image with only one frame, so we set the frame number to 0 (since
counting starts at 0 on computers).

Just having a sprite draw on the buffer is not enough. We need the second
command, ` lcd.Draw ` , to copy your working screen to the LCD
framebuffer. If you did this correctly, you should have achieved something
like this for your code.

** The Story So Far **
    
    
    CON
        _clkmode        = xtal1 + pll16x
        _xinfreq        = 5_000_000
    OBJ
        lcd     : "LameLCD" 
        gfx     : "LameGFX"  
        
        ball    : "gfx_ball"
        paddle  : "gfx_paddle"
    
    PUB Main
        lcd.Start(gfx.Start)
        
    	gfx.Clear
        gfx.Sprite(ball.Addr, 10, 10, 0)
        lcd.Draw
    

![](attachments/13762642/16089160.png)

